# scripts

Various scripts that I have written to be able to do things on the command line easier.

#### `change_remote.rb`

I used this script when I switched my GitHub username from `emmasax1` to `emma-sax4`. When you switch a username, GitHub only makes some changes for you. I had to go through each repository "manually" and turn the remotes from each one into a remote with the new username.

This script will go through every directory in a directory, see if it is a git directory, and then will check to see if the old username is included in the remote URL of that git directory. If it is, then the script will change the remote URL to instead point to the new username's remote URL.

#### `prune-merged-branches`

This script, courtesy of [@nicksieger](https://github.com/nicksieger), runs on a single repository, which you should be in. Then, it will pull all of the branches that have a 'merged' status, and will delete any branches that had merged PRs at least four weeks ago.

This script is particularly nice when you're in a repository that has a ton of stale branches.

#### `new_branch.rb`

This script is useful for making new branches in a repository on the command line. I mostly use it with the base branch as `master`, but technically it'd work with any branch. To run the script, you must currently be `cd`ed into the repository on your local machine that you want to make the new branch for. Then, run:
```
/path/to/this/directory/new_branch.rb
```

The script will ask you for the name of your new branch. Make sure your input does not contain any spaces or special characters.

#### `pull_request.rb`

This script can be used to handily make new pull requests and to merge pull requests from the command line. The script uses the [`Octokit::Client`](https://octokit.github.io/octokit.rb/Octokit/Client.html) to do this, so make sure you have a `.git_users.yml` file set up in this repository (the file will not be committed to GitHub):
```
# first GitHub user
'github-user Name':
  :github_user: github-user
  :github_token: QPHNXYfNwA1m1LTF7c8xY8pfj5t13vzb0GkA3ZoU

# other GitHub user
'other-github-user Name':
  :github_user: other-github-user
  :github_token: tEBvYBpZi4OIRtS43mLpjLdR6Sp14xSbMZgBgNsv
```

The keys should be the "name" that appears when you run `git config user.name` in your repository. And then, the Octokit client will use whichever github token matches which GitHub user you use to commit in that specific repository.

After this, you can call the file, and send in a flag indicating whether to create a pull request, `-c`, or to merge a pull request, `-m`.
```
/path/to/this/directory/pull_request.rb -c
/path/to/this/directory/pull_request.rb -m
```

If you're requesting to merge a pull request, the script will ask you the number ID of the pull request you wish to merge. If you're trying to create a PR, then the script will provide an autogenerated pull request title based on your branch name (separated by `_`). You can reject the autogenerated title and provide your own.

If you're getting stuck, you can run the command with a `--help` flag instead, to get some more information.
